---
layout: post
title: What is 'No-Code' and its future significance
permalink: no-code-significance
created: November 10, 2020
tags: Technology
---

'No-Code' today, is how it might feel to have a calculator in the 20th century. No-Code is a mobile-web application/software industry focused on helping individuals who have no knowledge of writing code to design, build, and automate tasks that predominantly require code. Simple words, no coding required.

For example: Look at this screenshot: the emojis, the font, etc. Back in the 90s or even 2000s, I would have to write HTML and some CSS code to build something like this. But today, I don't need to do that because of 'No-code' tools. The current tool I am using to write this is Notion — a productivity application with Kanban boards and calendar. A few days ago, I also created a resume with many tables and highlights and links, etc. with Notion. No intricacies of a word document, leave aside the HTML and CSS.

Notion is not the only one. Here's a quick list of requirement and the no-code applications:

- Design — Figma and Canva
- Database — Airtable and Zapier
- E-commerce platform — Shopify
- Marketing — Typeform, Hubspot, Joonbot, Klaviyo
- Finance and Payments — Stripe
- Community/Subscription businesses — Circle App, LaunchPass
- Productivity — Calendly, Trello, Notion
- Website builder — Wix, Webflow, Google Sites, Carrd, Ghost
- App builder — Glide, Thunkable
- Automation — Pipedrive, Mailchimp, Substack, Buffer

What does the above list mean? It means that you can do all the tasks mentioned above without writing a single line of code.

What stops you from starting a business now? There's a 70% chance that you won't require coding and probably you won't require to hire as well.

Additional insight: There's one more layer in this no-code ecosystem that isn't developed yet: the interface between multiple 'No-Code' apps and humans. This interface could be an AI working on writing and speech. An example is GPT-3. This API when linked with no-code apps like Figma, can convert your English sentences into UI designs.
